HTTP Protocol 



1.  The Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) is an application-level protocol.
2.Basically, HTTP is a TCP/IP based communication protocol, that is used to deliver data (HTML files, image files, query results, etc.) on the World Wide Web..
3.It provides a standardized way for computers to communicate with each other. HTTP specification specifies how clients' request data will be constructed and sent to the server,
 and how the servers respond to these requests.
4.The HTTP protocol is a request/response protocol based on the client/server based architecture
5.Client
The HTTP client sends a request to the server in the form of a request method, URI, and protocol version, followed by a MIME-like message containing request modifiers, 
client information, and possible body content over a TCP/IP connection.
6.Server
The HTTP server responds with a status line, including the message's protocol version and a success or error code, followed by a MIME-like message containing server information,
 entity meta information, and possible entity-body content.

7.HTTP is based on the client-server architecture model and a stateless request/response protocol that operates by exchanging messages across a reliable TCP/IP connection.
8.HTTP makes use of the Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) to identify a given resource and to establish a connection. Once the connection is established, HTTP messages are passed in a format similar to that used by the Internet mail [RFC5322] and the Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions (MIME) [RFC2045]. 
These messages include requests from client to server and responses from server to client which will have the following format:
9.An HTTP client sends an HTTP request to a server in the form of a request message 
10.After receiving and interpreting a request message, a server responds with an HTTP response message:
11.  status code ---The Status-Code element in a server response, is a 3-digit integer where the first digit of the Status-Code defines the class of response and the last two digits do not have any categorization role. 
There are 5 values for the first digit:
1xx: Informational
It means the request has been received and the process is continuing.
2xx: Success
It means the action was successfully received, understood, and accepted.
3xx: Redirection
It means further action must be taken in order to complete the request.
4xx: Client Error
It means the request contains incorrect syntax or cannot be fulfilled.
5xx: Server Error
It means the server failed to fulfill an apparently valid request.
we can read here (https://www.tutorialspoint.com/http/http_status_codes.htm)



12.HTTP header fields provide required information about the request or response, or about the object sent in the message body. 
There are four types of HTTP message headers:
General-header: These header fields have general applicability for both request and response messages.

Client Request-header: These header fields have applicability only for request messages.

Server Response-header: These header fields have applicability only for response messages.

Entity-header: These header fields define meta information about the entity-body or, if no body is present, about the resource identified by the request.

we can read here (https://www.tutorialspoint.com/http/http_header_fields.htm)


